README.md, before:

# MeMo-Fraktur-OCR-code

Developing a rule-based procedure for correcting OCR data from 19th century fraktur novels.

There are a few different goals in this project:

- Error analysis of baseline OCR output from KB (The Royal Library), as well as OCR output from other sources (= Tesseract).
- Re-OCR'ing the PDFs from KB using Tesseract (possibly using several different models).
- Correcting OCR using regex replacement, spelling error detection, and possibly custom character level n-gram embedding similarity.
- Error analysis of the corrected OCR vs. the baseline.



## Project structure

```
MeMo-Fraktur-OCR-code
├── README.md
├── analyze_goldstandard.py                   # Script: Run error analysis
├── config.ini                                # Local settings (git-ignored)
├── config.ini.example.txt                    # Example - save as config.ini
├── eval_df.csv                               # Alignment cache (git-ignored)
├── evalocr                                   # Py package: Alignment
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── align_ocr.py
├── intermediate                              # Interim output (git-ignored)
│   └── 12-02-2021
│       ├── 1-imgs
│       │   └── 1883_Brosboell_Krybskytten
│       │       ├── page_1.jpeg
│       │       ├── ..
│       │       └── page_9.jpeg
│       ├── 2-uncorrected
│       │   └── 1883_Brosboell_Krybskytten
│       │       ├── page_10_uncorrected.txt
│       │       ├── ..
│       │       └── page_9_uncorrected.txt
│       └── 3-corrected
│           └── 1883_Brosboell_Krybskytten
│               └── 1883_Brosboell_Krybskytten_corrected.txt
├── memoocr                                   # Py package: OCR + corrections
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── correct_ocr.py
│   ├── make_dictionary.py
│   ├── ocr.py
│   └── pdf2img.py
├── requirements.txt                          # Python requirements
├── run_ocr_pipeline.py                       # Script: Run OCR/corrections
└── test                                      # Unittests
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── analyze_gold_test.py
    └── tesserpipe_test.py
```

## Installation/dependencies

Code developed in python 3.9 in venv (virtual environment).

- Poppler
    - Installed in `/usr/local/Cellar/poppler/21.02.0` using `brew install poppler`.
- Tesseract 4 
    - Installed in `/usr/local/Cellar/tesseract/4.1.1/bin/tesseract` using `brew install tesseract`
- Python modules: See requirements.txt. Install in your virtual environment using `pip install -r requirements.txt`


## OCR analysis

Token-align OCR output with corrected goldstandard, and generate detailed error statistics.

Run:

Create a config.ini with relevant options and local paths (see `config.ini.example.txt`). Then:

```
python3 analyze_goldstandard.py
```



## OCR correction

Work in progress ...

Take PDFs of Fraktur novels through an OCR pipeline from PDF to cleaned OCR text.

- Split PDFs into separate pages.
- Perform OCR with tesseract.
- Clean OCR from tesseract using regex/SymSpell/character n-gram embeddings?

The different steps can be bypassed as per the choices in config.ini.

Run:

Create a config.ini with relevant options and local paths (see `config.ini.example.txt`). Then:

```
python3 run_ocr_pipeline.py
```

Commit message:

Update README and example config file.

README.md, after:

# MeMo-Fraktur-OCR-code

Developing a rule-based procedure for correcting OCR data from 19th century fraktur novels.

There are a few different goals in this project:

- Error analysis of baseline OCR output from KB (The Royal Library), as well as OCR output from other sources (= Tesseract).
- Re-OCR'ing the PDFs from KB using Tesseract (possibly using several different models).
- Correcting OCR using regex replacement, spelling error detection, and possibly custom character level n-gram embedding similarity.
- Error analysis of the corrected OCR vs. the baseline.



## Project structure

```
MeMo-Fraktur-OCR-code
├── README.md
├── analyze_goldstandard.py                   # Script: Run error analysis
├── config.ini                                # Local settings (git-ignored)
├── config.ini.example.txt                    # Example - save as config.ini
├── eval_df.csv                               # Alignment cache (git-ignored)
├── evalocr                                   # Py package: Alignment
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── align_ocr.py
├── intermediate                              # Interim output (git-ignored)
│   └── 12-02-2021
│       ├── 1-imgs
│       │   └── 1883_Brosboell_Krybskytten
│       │       ├── page_1.jpeg
│       │       ├── ..
│       │       └── page_9.jpeg
│       ├── 2-uncorrected
│       │   └── 1883_Brosboell_Krybskytten
│       │       ├── page_10_uncorrected.txt
│       │       ├── ..
│       │       └── page_9_uncorrected.txt
│       └── 3-corrected
│           └── 1883_Brosboell_Krybskytten
│               └── 1883_Brosboell_Krybskytten_corrected.txt
├── memoocr                                   # Py package: OCR + corrections
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── correct_ocr.py
│   ├── make_dictionary.py
│   ├── ocr.py
│   └── pdf2img.py
├── requirements.txt                          # Python requirements
├── run_ocr_pipeline.py                       # Script: Run OCR/corrections
└── test                                      # Unittests
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── analyze_gold_test.py
    └── tesserpipe_test.py
```

## Installation/dependencies

Code developed in python 3.9 in venv (virtual environment).

- Poppler
    - Installed in `/usr/local/Cellar/poppler/21.02.0` using `brew install poppler`.
- Tesseract 4 
    - Installed in `/usr/local/Cellar/tesseract/4.1.1/bin/tesseract` using `brew install tesseract`
- Python modules: See requirements.txt. Install in your virtual environment using `pip install -r requirements.txt`


## OCR analysis

Token-align OCR output with corrected goldstandard, and generate detailed error statistics.

NOTE: In the gold standard (`Guldstandard.txt`), hypens ("[- ]") are removed.

Run:

Create a config.ini with relevant options and local paths (see `config.ini.example.txt`). Then:

```
python3 analyze_goldstandard.py
```



## OCR correction

Work in progress ...

Take PDFs of Fraktur novels through an OCR pipeline from PDF to cleaned OCR text.

- Split PDFs into separate pages and save each page as jpeg.
- Perform OCR with tesseract.
- Clean OCR from tesseract using regex/SymSpell/character n-gram embeddings?
  - The cleaned output is to be tokenized and used as the token layer for all subsequent annotations. The original OCR text is to be aligned to this token layer for later reference.

The different steps can be bypassed as per the choices in config.ini.

Run:

Create a config.ini with relevant options and local paths (see `config.ini.example.txt`). Then:

```
python3 run_ocr_pipeline.py
```


## VRT output

The code should be able to work with .vrt files.

- When correcting OCR, the corrected output should become the reference token layer while the original should become an annotation layer.
- When working with the gold standard, the gold standard should be the reference token layer and the (corrected) OCR should be aligned to it as an annotation layer.
- It should be possible to read in an existing .vrt file and add annotations to it. E.g.: 
  - An existing .vrt file with only reference tokens to which an original OCR layer is aligned and added.
  - An existing .vrt file with reference tokens + original OCR to which another layer of original (or corrected) OCR is added.
- .vrt files should have one novel per `<text>` element, and page numbers as an annotation layer.


## Add annotations from CONLL file

Annotations (including <sentence> segmentation) from a CONLL file per novel can now be added.

See my OneNote and the README for Text Tonsorium output set 502-final (in Downloads) for notes.
